` `The elderly woman owned a radio that only had a few frequencies. Although these radio channels were almost always controlled by the Taliban, sometimes a few songs would be played, and all of them would dance along. With the money that Suraya made, they could only buy bread, but Humaira would give them food, and sometimes they would receive some aid packages. They clung to hope and wanted to leave the hardships behind and finally enjoy life.

` `Baktash and his family’s life was all the contrary. Not a day would pass without an argument or a fight in that household. Everyone was always depressed, irritated or anxious, and the house was filled with negative energy. When Zohal and their other sisters came back to visit, they only stayed one day. Fariba wanted to spend more time with Suraya, but her mother wouldn’t allow her. “You’ll become lazy like her,” she would say.   
There were strict rules in their household. There was no television, no radio and no paintings in the house. No one was allowed to talk or even laugh loudly. Everyone had to pray five times a day, even kids and women on their periods; it was a matter of honor. There were separate rooms for male and female guests. No one was allowed to see the faces of the females in the house.   
But Muhammad didn’t give too much importance to these rules. He had a television and radio. He would not eat until the rest of his family members would come. His oldest daughter-in-law, Balqees, was from an overly religious family, and considered Muhammad’s openness as apostasy. As for Humaira, she used to be conservative before the arrival of Balqees, but after that, she became even stricter.  
Before Hamed and Balqees’s marriage, the house used to be very different. But after their marriage and after Zohal married Balqees’s older brother, everything changed, and the house’s lively energy was transformed into rigid and palpable tension. 

` `However, with the arrival of Suraya, the house environment changed considerably. Fariba was having fun like she never had before. She learned from Suraya’s lessons and watched TV with her father, something that she never dared to do before. Sometimes, when Balqees said wrong information about religious matters, Fariba would openly disagree with her and challenge her by presenting convincing arguments. Fariba’s other sister-in-law was very introverted. She was always in her room and never argued or interfered with anyone. Balqees, however, always criticized Suraya, telling her off about her shameless behavior, or about why she was still unmarried. 

` `Despite the resistance she faced from Balqees, Suraya slowly injected a curiosity and a love for learning in the children. Muhammad would rent books and ask Suraya to read them with Fariba. She would read history books, classical novels, philosophy books, and sometimes even Suraya’s sisters would come to listen. Her lessons brought everyone together.