### CHAPTER 1

` `It was midday on a cloudy, gloomy Friday of August of 1999. The sky appeared somber and it was raining lightly on the city of Kabul. The men of the city wore *perahan tunbans* and headed to pray in the mosques. No women were seen on the streets—it was a town dominated by men. The few women that were around were accompanied by their husbands, sons or fathers, and were covered from head to toe such that their faces were unrecognizable. 

` `Baktash was in a mosque in Kabul listening to the mullah’s lecture. The mullah was talking about the Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan and seemed extremely pleased. He was explaining how the shariah was taking over the country and how women’s modesty and respect were preserved with them being at home, and that the society would now develop collectively immaculate manners. People were nodding in agreement at his discourse and saying “*Allahu Akbar*” after every spoken sentence. Baktash was happy—he would soon be a mufti in a nearby mosque. Before the Taliban’s takeover, he was a law student in Kabul University. Because of the war, he stopped his studies, but he didn’t mind. He thought women didn’t have the right to education nor to have their own voice, that they needed men in their lives. They were only predestined to be the mother, the sister or the wife of a man—that was all. By the end of prayer, as everyone was leaving the mosques, it was raining heavily. Baktash reached the street near his house with difficulty. He saw two young girls who had trouble passing in the street because of the water. One of the girls was showing her face, and it seemed familiar to Baktash.

Baktash asked them: “What are you two doing here?”

One of them answered: “Can’t you see that we’re stuck?”

He replied: “Why are you two alone without a male relative?”

The girl answered: “If you don’t want to help, please leave.”

` `Baktash helped them. The girls thanked him, but he warned them that they shouldn’t be seen again alone without a male relative. The two girls walked away hurriedly. On the way home, Baktash realized that the girl he had seen used to be very popular at his university because of her looks and her outspoken opinion and thoughts. She was a student of journalism. Baktash could hardly believe that a girl who previously seemed so beautiful and filled with positive energy and attitude could suddenly appear so much older with wrinkles that turned her into a withered flower. Her clothes were ragged and messy. 

` `As he was arriving home, he was still lost in his thoughts. His mother greeted him at the door. She was a religious and conservative woman, in her fifties, with almond eyes and a big nose, her face covered in wrinkles that made her appear older than her age.

His mother, seeing how pensive he looked, asked him: “What happened to you? Come, let’s eat.”

` `He told her about his encounter with the two girls. She sighed and said: “Sorrow makes people grow old.” She added that the girl must be worried about her future given the current situation. They both went to the dining room. Baktash lived with his parents, brothers and sisters under one roof. His father was a retired sixty-year-old man, and much wiser than his wife. Both of Baktash’s bothers were older than him, and lived with their wives and kids in the same house. Baktash had four sisters. Three of them were married young, and his youngest fourteen-year-old sister was engaged to her cousin. Baktash’s father was not very happy at the idea of this marriage, but the rest of the family seemed pleased. They thought that the sooner a girl got married, the better it was for her. Their family was old-fashioned and held overly religious beliefs. Even though all the brothers worked, they were poor and had an old house made of clay.

` `As the night was ending, Baktash headed to his room, his safe haven. Ever since childhood, he had loved to paint, but since he felt it was sinful, he hid his passion from everyone. When he was in the privacy of his room, all alone, he could paint and do as he pleased. He only drew lifeless bodies and objects, since drawing any live subject was considered a big sin. He started painting the window in front of him but unintentionally found himself drawing the face of the girl he had seen earlier. Hours had passed when his painting was finished. It was the girl’s face, with no wrinkles or imperfections, with her hair let down and strands of it over her face. The candlelight that fell on the painting made it look like a masterpiece. Baktash observed the painting closely and then put it aside. He lay down to sleep and as he closed his eyes, the girl came to his mind and he wondered about her situation and why she looked like she was falling apart.   
“She must be in need of money,” he thought. He wished he could help her, but he remembered that she came from a rich family and thought about his mother’s opinion on the matter. He lay awake, and after a lot of struggling, closed his eyes and fell asleep.